# Predicting-the-alpha-signal-using-microblogging-data


## Problem Description:
A hedge fund uses 6 financial factors to predict the alpha signal in a stock. This
alpha signal is used to make purchase decisions about the stock. The hedge fund
now collected and tagged microblogging data for sentiment from the Social Media
platform called ‘StockTwits’.
StockTwits is used by people who regularly trade stocks. People on this platform
tweet about stocks using the special character ‘$’ to indicate the name of the
stock. These microblogs similar to tweets might contain important information
about the alpha signal in a stock.
Your goal is to build a sentiment analysis model using the tagged data. This
sentiment analysis model should then be used to generate a new stock factor
which together with the other stock factors should be used to predict the Alpha
Signal.
The hedge fund has anonymised the data, which contains 7 stock factors and an
alpha signal. This alpha signal is generated using a near perfect algorithmic trading
strategy. Unfortunately the number of stock factors, collected to run that strategy,
are extremely high and have to be collected from a large number of data vendors
at a high price.
Replicating the alpha signal generated from that strategy using just the 7 Stock
Factors and the factor generated from sentiment analysis of the stocktwits would
make the company incur significantly less costs to perform their trades.

About the data and main tasks:
Two json files: ‘ sentiment_train.json ’ and ‘ sentiment_test.json ’ are provided to
you which contain stocktwit data, the ‘ timestamp’ of collecting the tweet and the
‘ticker’ (stock identifier). The ‘ sentiment_train.json ’ also contains the tagged
sentiment_score ranging from 0 - 3 .

The json files have a structure as follows:
{ ‘records’: [
{
'stocktwit_tweet': ‘$TSLA is a definite buy today’,
'sentiment_score': ‘3’,
'timestamp': ‘2018-07-01 00:00:09+00:00’,
'ticker': ‘TSLA’
},
{..},
{..}
]
}
You must parse these json files and build a sentiment analysis model. And use the
model to generate a sentiment based factor.
There are two csv files provided to you: ‘ train_factors.csv ’ and ‘ test_factors.csv ’.
The ‘ train_factors.csv ’ file contains the following fields:
1. date: The date at which the factors are generated
2. ticker: The identifier through which the company is listed in the stock
exchange
3. SF1 - SF7: 7 anonymised Stock Factors that can be used to predict the alpha: The alpha signal generated by using a high performing
algorithmic trading strategy. (range: 1 - 4)
You must first build models using the 7 anonymised stock factors (SF1 - SF7) to
predict alpha. Then add the sentiment scores and build more models to predict
alpha. Detail the improvement observed using the sentiment factor compared to
just using the other stock factors


# Objectives:
1. Build machine learning models to predict the alpha from
the stock factors
2. Parse tagged sentiment data given in the json format
3. Build a sentiment analysis model on the parsed data
4. Use the sentiment score as a factor, along with others to
predict the alpha
4. Perform Visualisations & EDA on the data gathered.
5. Build a robust local validation strategy
6. Plot the learning curves for your model and pick the best
model by considering the bias-variance trade off
Evaluation Metric:
The average of the F1-score for each of the classes
Eval Metric = (F1 score for target level 1 + level 2 + level 3 + level 4) / 4
The metric is equivalent to the f1_score() function’s output from
sklearn.metrics when it’s argument is set to the string ‘macro’
